---
layout: post
title: "New Beginnings"
subtitle: "My first 6 Months learning about computer programming"
background: '/img/posts/05.jpg'
---

## The motto. Better late than never But never late is better – Drake
-	Yes you just read that. And no you’re not dreaming
- I felt it was fitting to start my first line on my blog with a line from champagne papi himself.  Let me explain…..
-	It’s been a rough year with the pandemic going on and social distancing. 
- I decided to do something constructive with my time. So, I got the bright idea to accomplish things I always wish I could but would always *excuse myself from doing* with school and work.

- So I went through that big list of “what ifs” and choose 3 things I would do with my newfound free time:
  1. Start a blog
  2. Teach myself how to design and create programs
  3. Get super into cooking


## How I spent my first 4 months?

- I spent time reviewing basics of Command line, Version control systems, Git, and Github
- I downloaded and set up IDE software 
-	I covered some concepts before delving into my first language (C). 
- I looked into software development in C 
-	I learned the major components of a modern computer
- I learned the units of information on a modern computer, looked into the memory model for programming a modern computer, and looked into the addressing system for accessing the memory of a modern computer

- I also learned how to self-document while making computer programs
  - I wrote my official first program in C (Yay!). 
  - The traditional “hello world” program
- From there I quickly started to create and design much more complex programs in C 
- I jumped into Web development 
  - Learning Basic HTML, CSS, JavaScript
  - Created small web pages & applications

## After the 4 months I knew Following?
- Programming is lots of fun
- CSS is evil but a necessary evil
- I would need to Enroll in College to cover some areas I feel that I missed
  - Mostly CS theories

## What did I do?
- And that's what I did. I enrolled into college
- With my first 2 semesters almost done. That was a good idea. Since this:
  - Helped me bridged some gaps in my knowledge that I missed while self learning
  - Allowed me to meet and learn with fellow CS students that had similar interests with me
  - Create groups with my classmates in order to participate in my first Hackathon
    - [My Group's Hackathon Project](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LAkM1ySo7JU)